The Merchant of Venice

ACT III. SCENE I.
Venice. A street

Enter SOLANIO and SALERIO

  SOLANIO. Now, what news on the Rialto?
  SALERIO. Why, yet it lives there uncheck'd that Antonio hath a
ship
    of rich lading wreck'd on the narrow seas; the Goodwins I
think
    they call the place, a very dangerous flat and fatal, where
the
    carcases of many a tall ship lie buried, as they say, if my
    gossip Report be an honest woman of her word.
  SOLANIO. I would she were as lying a gossip in that as ever
knapp'd
    ginger or made her neighbours believe she wept for the death
of a
    third husband. But it is true, without any slips of prolixity
or
    crossing the plain highway of talk, that the good Antonio,
the
    honest Antonio- O that I had a title good enough to keep his
name
    company!-
  SALERIO. Come, the full stop.
  SOLANIO. Ha! What sayest thou? Why, the end is, he hath lost a
    ship.
  SALERIO. I would it might prove the end of his losses.
  SOLANIO. Let me say amen betimes, lest the devil cross my
prayer, 
    for here he comes in the likeness of a Jew.

                             Enter SHYLOCK

    How now, Shylock? What news among the merchants?
  SHYLOCK. You knew, none so well, none so well as you, of my
    daughter's flight.
  SALERIO. That's certain; I, for my part, knew the tailor that
made
    the wings she flew withal.
  SOLANIO. And Shylock, for his own part, knew the bird was
flidge;
    and then it is the complexion of them all to leave the dam.
  SHYLOCK. She is damn'd for it.
  SALERIO. That's certain, if the devil may be her judge.
  SHYLOCK. My own flesh and blood to rebel!
  SOLANIO. Out upon it, old carrion! Rebels it at these years?
  SHYLOCK. I say my daughter is my flesh and my blood.
  SALERIO. There is more difference between thy flesh and hers
than
    between jet and ivory; more between your bloods than there is
    between red wine and Rhenish. But tell us, do you hear
whether
    Antonio have had any loss at sea or no? 
  SHYLOCK. There I have another bad match: a bankrupt, a
prodigal,
    who dare scarce show his head on the Rialto; a beggar, that
was
    us'd to come so smug upon the mart. Let him look to his bond.
He
    was wont to call me usurer; let him look to his bond. He was
wont
    to lend money for a Christian courtesy; let him look to his
bond.
  SALERIO. Why, I am sure, if he forfeit, thou wilt not take his
    flesh. What's that good for?
  SHYLOCK. To bait fish withal. If it will feed nothing else, it
will
    feed my revenge. He hath disgrac'd me and hind'red me half a
    million; laugh'd at my losses, mock'd at my gains, scorned my
    nation, thwarted my bargains, cooled my friends, heated mine
    enemies. And what's his reason? I am a Jew. Hath not a Jew
eyes?
    Hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections,
    passions, fed with the same food, hurt with the same weapons,
    subject to the same diseases, healed by the same means,
warmed
    and cooled by the same winter and summer, as a Christian is?
If
    you prick us, do we not bleed? If you tickle us, do we not
laugh?
    If you poison us, do we not die? And if you wrong us, shall
we
    not revenge? If we are like you in the rest, we will resemble
you
    in that. If a Jew wrong a Christian, what is his humility? 
    Revenge. If a Christian wrong a Jew, what should his
sufferance
    be by Christian example? Why, revenge. The villainy you teach
me
    I will execute; and itshall go hard but I will better the
    instruction.

                    Enter a MAN from ANTONIO

  MAN. Gentlemen, my master Antonio is at his house, and desires
to
    speak with you both.
  SALERIO. We have been up and down to seek him.

                          Enter TUBAL

  SOLANIO. Here comes another of the tribe; a third cannot be
    match'd, unless the devil himself turn Jew.
                                Exeunt SOLANIO, SALERIO, and MAN
  SHYLOCK. How now, Tubal, what news from Genoa? Hast thou found
my
    daughter?
  TUBAL. I often came where I did hear of her, but cannot find
her.
  SHYLOCK. Why there, there, there, there! A diamond gone, cost
me 
    two thousand ducats in Frankfort! The curse never fell upon
our
    nation till now; I never felt it till now. Two thousand
ducats in
    that, and other precious, precious jewels. I would my
daughter
    were dead at my foot, and the jewels in her ear; would she
were
    hears'd at my foot, and the ducats in her coffin! No news of
    them? Why, so- and I know not what's spent in the search.
Why,
    thou- loss upon loss! The thief gone with so much, and so
much to
    find the thief; and no satisfaction, no revenge; nor no ill
luck
    stirring but what lights o' my shoulders; no sighs but o' my
    breathing; no tears but o' my shedding!
  TUBAL. Yes, other men have ill luck too: Antonio, as I heard in
    Genoa-
  SHYLOCK. What, what, what? Ill luck, ill luck?
  TUBAL. Hath an argosy cast away coming from Tripolis.
  SHYLOCK. I thank God, I thank God. Is it true, is it true?
  TUBAL. I spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wreck.
  SHYLOCK. I thank thee, good Tubal. Good news, good news- ha,
ha!-
    heard in Genoa.
  TUBAL. Your daughter spent in Genoa, as I heard, one night,
    fourscore ducats. 
  SHYLOCK. Thou stick'st a dagger in me- I shall never see my
gold
    again. Fourscore ducats at a sitting! Fourscore ducats!
  TUBAL. There came divers of Antonio's creditors in my company
to
    Venice that swear he cannot choose but break.
  SHYLOCK. I am very glad of it; I'll plague him, I'll torture
him; I
    am glad of it.
  TUBAL. One of them showed me a ring that he had of your
daughter
    for a monkey.
  SHYLOCK. Out upon her! Thou torturest me, Tubal. It was my
    turquoise; I had it of Leah when I was a bachelor; I would
not
    have given it for a wilderness of monkeys.
  TUBAL. But Antonio is certainly undone.
  SHYLOCK. Nay, that's true; that's very true. Go, Tubal, fee me
an
    officer; bespeak him a fortnight before. I will have the
heart of
    him, if he forfeit; for, were he out of Venice, I can make
what
    merchandise I will. Go, Tubal, and meet me at our synagogue;
go,
    good Tubal; at our synagogue, Tubal.                  Exeunt
